---
layout: post
title: "How to SEO"
date: 2017-03-17
---

Get your personal website ready to be found.

SEO stands for Search Engine Optimization. This means how well a site performs when people search on a site like Google for words related to what your site is all about.

I wanted my site to perform better on Google when people search for "Stephanie Chou Engineer". Unfortunately for me, my name is somewhat common and there are a couple of other Stephanie Chou's who beat me to the web presence game. However, my site wasn't even showing up in results. I have improved it so my site is the first result on the second page. Obviously, I'd like to get it on the first page. Anything is better than not at all!

### Help Google read your code

There are two parts to this.

1. First make sure you are writing clean html and css. Make sure your coding style is up to date. This helps Google know you are legit.
2. Second tell google what your site is about. To do this, add meta data in your ```head```


Google crawls web pages periodically to look for changes. Crawling is Google's way of reading what you have on your site. If Google can't read your content, it can't offer it up as a possible site when people search for you. Luckily there are ways to help Google read.

Use ItemProp attributes in your html. Item properties identify what your content is. For example, you may have html
```<div> Hermione Granger</div>```

But this doesn't tell Google who or what a Hermione Granger is. To let google know Hermione is a person, add:

```<div itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Person> Hermione Granger</div>```

To learn more about ItemProps and the different classfications of data, visit http://schema.org/.

You can add all kinds of meta data (information about your site) to the head of your html. Give your site a title and description. Put keywords in these. If you were Dumbledore your description might read
```  <meta name="description" content="Dumbledore Headmaster of Hogwarts, Order of Merlin First Class, Badass Wizard">```

(Also, this description tag is what google uses to populate that blurb under the main title of your website in search results. Make it pretty. Make it count)

You can even add a meta tag for keywords. Be sure your keywords make sense and are relevant. You can confuse Google by misusing keywords or putting them in too many places.

### Let Google know you are important

Google ranks websites by importance. More important sites rise to the top of the search results. How does Google know what is important? It depends the internet to tell it. The logic is, the more important a site is, the more others will reference it. References to a site are links. Me putting "www.facebook.com" here in my blog is a reference to facebook. Google also takes into account who the referencer is. For example, me on this piddly little personal blog counts for very little. I'm not an important site, so when I reference something Google doesn't care. But Google notices when important sites make reference to other sites. If some giant site like Tech Crunch shared a link to my website, I would go up in the rankings.

Remember two things:
1. Getting referenced is good
2. Getting referenced by important sites is better

You can game this for yourself. Reference your own site where ever you can. If you have social media accounts, add links to your own personal website in the about sections. Some ideas:
* Facebook
* Twitter
* Github
* Linkedin
* Google Plus.

You can even drop links to your own site in comment sections if you wish. It counts.

### Use Google to help you!
Google Search Console  will help you monitor your site. It will tell you how your site is doing and what search terms led to you getting traffic. If you know the search terms, you can improve your keyword choices! https://www.google.com/webmasters/tools/home?hl=en
